* 2019: Went to two shorter online courses in Computer Science at Uppsala
  University. It was nice, but in the end it felt hard to find the proper time
  to both be working full-time, parenting four children and in addition to that
  also find time to _study_ in the evenings, so I decided to take a break with
  my studies after the 2nd course.
  * **chaos** (42h). Decided to make a new attempt at fixing [the `soundblaster`
    server](https://github.com/chaos4ever/chaos/tree/master/servers/sound/soundblaster)
    (the previous attempt was the year before), with the end goal of making it
    possible to play music with [the `.mod`
    player](https://github.com/chaos4ever/chaos/tree/master/programs/modplay)
    again. Got it working :tada:, only to realize that the music started to
    experience cutoffs/etc after a while. Turned out that our `malloc`-based IPC
    (one memory allocation for each IPC send) was a bad idea, so I refactored it
    to use a circular queue instead - this was a nice experience where I even
    managed to get my feet wet with unit testing of C code, which I haven't done
    much before. It was really nice to be able to place breakpoints and run my
    new circular queue implementation from inside VS Code, and make sure various
    scenarios were properly handled by my implementation.

        This led up to
        [the 0.3.0 release](https://github.com/chaos4ever/chaos/releases/tag/0.3.0),
        which included for the first time in years (or decades :-) a working `.mod`
        player.

        Full list of commits for the year is
        [here](https://github.com/chaos4ever/chaos/compare/c8744ac...0f193d9).

    * **EnvironmentCriminal** (28h). This was an ASP.NET MVC/C# project I did
      for one of the university courses previously mentioned. The project used a
      local SQL Server DB and Entity Framework for accessing the DB. It was nice
      to get some up-to-date experience with these technologies, and I wouldn't
      mind using them again. I think the "classic" (non-SPA) based approach to
      writing web sites fits my mental model better than e.g. Ember, React and
      friends. If Blazor + WebAssembly changes things greatly I might reconsider
      accepting the SPA paradigm again. :-)

   * **2is206_laborations** (14h). This was a little Java project we did in the
     other university course, playing around with some (fairly simple)
     algorithms. Sorting and things like that. I think this was a good brain
     exercise for me. Even though I've been working as a professional programmer
     since the last century, there are still gaps in my knowledge, areas where I
     can improve. Getting stronger in algorithms is clearly one of these.
     Interestingly enough, it was after going this course that I then did the
     circular queue implementation in C for chaos (mentioned above).

   * **perlun.eu.org** (2h). The blog didn't get a whole lot of love during this
     year. I think I've almost spent at the time of writing (January the 5th)
     more time on this during 2020 already. :-) (given the work I've spent on
     updating these lists of projects etc)

  * **perlang** (1h). Perlang is a new programming language I am thinking about
    writing. This is yet on the drawing board; there is not a single line of
    code written on the compiler yet. As of yet, I have jot down a few examples
    of how the syntax could look and some aspects on how it would work. I also
    keep a page in my notebook at work, writing down various idas I get while
    working with my at-work project(s). :-) Who knows, maybe this will become a
    new killer language? Either way, I'm hoping to write more about it on this blog at some point.

  * **chaosdev.io** (1h). I spent a little time writing up [a post with release
    notes for 0.3.0](https://chaosdev.io/2019/08/29/chaos-0.3.0-released.html),
    as well as some other small fixes.
